---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "zedamigo_virtual_machine Resource - zedamigo"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Edge Node / VM in the general case
---

# zedamigo_virtual_machine (Resource)

Edge Node / VM in the general case



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `disk_image_base` (String) Disk image base from which the actual disk image used for this node will be created (qemu-img backing file)
- `serial_no` (String) Edge Node (or VM) serial number

### Optional

- `cpus` (String) Number of CPUs that the VM running the edge node will have. Default: 4. See the QEMU `-smp` option.
- `disk_1_image_base` (String) Disk image base from which the 2nd disk actual disk image used for this node will be created (qemu-img backing file)
- `disk_size_mb` (Number) Disk image size in MB (megabytes, old-style power of 2). If not specified then the size of the base image will be preserved.
- `drive_if` (String) The value of the interface (if) option for the QEMU `-drive` flag. This defines how the disk is presented to the VM. The default value is empty which for current versions of QEMU translates to `ide` which is a good option for running EVE-OS. Other valid options: ide, scsi, sd, mtd, floppy, pflash, virtio, none. See also the help for QEMU `-drive`.
- `extra_qemu_args` (List of String) Extra CLI arguments for the QEMU command used to start the edge node VM. Passed verbatim to QEMU.
- `mem` (String) Amount of memory that the VM running the edge node will have. Default: 4G. Valid options: `4096`, `4096M`, `4G`.
- `name` (String) Edge Node (or VM) name
- `nic0` (String) QEMU `-nic` options for the first (#0) NIC of the edge node VM. Default: `user,id=usernet0,hostfwd=tcp::${vm_ssh_port}-:22,model=virtio`
- `ovmf_vars_src` (String) UEFI OVMF vars source file (likely from the corresponding installed edge node)
- `serial_port_server` (Boolean) Configure the edge-node serial port as a telnet server; if false then serial port output is logged to a file
- `swtpm_socket` (String) swtpm process unix socket

### Read-Only

- `disk_1_image` (String) Edge Node 2nd disk disk image
- `disk_image` (String) Edge Node disk image
- `id` (String) Edge Node (or VM) identifier
- `ovmf_vars` (String) UEFI OVMF vars file specific for this edge node
- `qmp_socket` (String) UNIX socket for QEMU QMP for this edge node VM
- `serial_console_log` (String) Edge Node log file of serial console output if serial_port_server is false
- `serial_port_socket` (String) If serial_port_server is true then this will contain the file path of the UNIX socket for the serial port server
- `ssh_port` (Number) Randomly selected port on localhost on which the EVE-OS TCP port 22 can be accessed
- `vm_running` (Boolean) Running state of the QEMU VM for this edge node
